Hello and welcome back my friend in this video we are going to be adding damage so that when we shoot
our enemies it does more than just kind of jiggle around and sit there.
We'll be destroying the arrow we'll be doing damage will be hurting our enemies.
Just a reminder we haven't implemented a bunch of stuff yet like we haven't implemented the weapons
within the saving system so if you try to go to a different scene with a weapon it's not going to continue.
So still lots for us to do but we're making fantastic progress.
And the way we're going to structure this is here's my dude shooting his arrow.
We're going to have the damage amount being provided by the weapon in this case the bow and then it's
calculated when it's launch.
So when the projectile is launched and instantiated and pushed off towards the enemy we're going to
say at that point the amount of damage you will do is for example 10 and then the damage is actually
dealt when the arrow collides with the enemy or with the target.
And we've done it this way so that we can have all of our weapons are responsible for the damage that
a sword is responsible for damage and we can have ask repeatable objects cited sources say 10 damage
and the bow is a 10 damage.
If you don't have a bow plus five it might be 15 damage rather than having to mess around with putting
the damage onto the arrow and to say well this bow needs to shoot that particular arrow and it's a better
bow so let's shoot a better arrow.
Let's put all of the damage calculation onto the bow but side note if you wanted to yourself and you're
going make a flaming arrow then a flaming arrow could add more damage to whatever the bow is passing
on.
So there is the structure there if you want to do that within your game.
But we're having the weapon be the ultimate authority for the damage.
So let's fire up our Projectile class.
We need to give ourselves a notion of damage that's going to remove that line before health and create
a new float variable which I will call damage and this will be zero because it's not providing any damage
at this point for our game.
We want to be passing the damage in from our weapon when we call.
What are we going to call in here when we call set target.
So let us find data to set target health target in addition to that.
So come out.
We also want an argument of float or type float which we will call damage.
So in other words when you calls it target you need to tell us the damage as well as we did before.
Let us set the damage that will be on the projectile once it's instantiated this dot damage equals the
damage that we've just passed in from calling set target.
OK.
We'll save that.
Now over two weapon find our set target for me.
It's on line 45.
So it's within.
Launch projectile.
We're passing in target comma.
Now if memory serves I scroll up weapon damage is what we've called it here it's not just damage could
probably be just damage but it's called weapon damage at this point.
So we will pass in.
Weapon damage.
Now back over to projectile what we need to do within here.
Just gonna put it down the bottom is we need a mechanism for saying what happens when me the projectile
the arrow in our case collides with something.
So what happens when I crash into an enemy that's gonna be the challenge for you.
So apply damage from projectile.
First of all add on trigger enter to the projectile just in the place that I started writing down here
and check it that we collided with our target.
So do a check to see is this the target we collided with.
If not we want to return.
And just a hint remember that the target is of type health.
So we can use that when we're doing our comparison and then we coul take damage passing in the relevant
things hint hint.
And after that we destroy the projectile.
So that is not sitting around in the scene.
And just a reminder if you look at this you know I'm not sure what to do.
And you want to follow along with me.
That's totally cool.
But any moment you think oh I know that particular part of this pose a video and do that particular
part of the challenge so that you're practicing and you're flexing those muscles even if you can't do
the whole challenge doing part of the challenge is totally okay.
So do your best take on the challenge and then we'll go through it together in a moment radio so on
trigger enter to start what we're doing here and you can see it's added collider other as information
that we're gonna be accessing so we will start with if we want to be looking at our other objective
here.
So if other dot get health so I get component I was going to ask you what component should we give it.
I'm kind of giving you the answer I haven't I get component health is not equal to what he is a chance
to.
Little mini challenge if he didn't do the challenge yourself.
If it's not equal to target then we return.
We get the heck out of here.
Why does this work.
Well Target is of type health.
So when we are looking at our other.
The thing that we've collided with getting the health component and comparing it to target which is
of type health we can do a direct comparison between the two and say Are they the same.
If they're not then return next line.
We want our target to be taking damage so target don't take damage.
And how much damage should we be doing well damage that is going to be our instance damage the very
top damage that starts off at zero.
But then we pass in the amount of damage when we create this projectile and send it on its way.
And then finally destroy.
And if you didn't do any of the challenge here's the easy one that you can do.
What do we destroy we destroy game object some others destroy me the arrow that has been shot.
OK we'll save that.
Back over into unity one more step that I didn't mention.
But let's do this together is to find our projectiles jump into the arrow projectile.
And what do we need to add to the Arrow projectile.
We need to add a collider.
Okay.
Oh you know what Sam was mentioning I had a wonky Arrow said Brooke you've got a bent arrow and I thought
he was just being a little bit crude just between you and me.
But know I see what you meant Sam.
Okay.
I do have a wonky arrow in here and it's probably because I've got this weird rotation sorry should
be negative 270.
No idea why it is not.
My apologies if you've been yelling at Rick's wonky Ahu on the screen now I'm gonna go back up to the
parent level on Arrow projectile add component box collider and it comes in pretty massive so we'll
make it a bit more tightly fitting on to the arrow so just changing the size and change the positioning
a little bit.
I'd like to have a little bit of the arrow poking out at the end so that the arrow pierces the heart
of our foes a little bit before we trigger all of the all of the damage and having it destroy all that
looks pretty good.
So reasonably fat kind of collider but that's good make sure we might miss give ourselves a bit of an
advantage although the enemies are shooting the same arrow so I guess they get an advantage as well.
Now let's see the plan needs to be holding the bow.
Yes default weapon I have the bow equipped the bow.
Let's have a look at that make sure we've got that covered bow scripted all object.
Weapon damage 10 so that's what we'll be doing each time we shoot yes and then the weapon range can
I'll leave that as is or I'm close enough to see and you know it just to be a little bit crazy I'm gonna
give one of my enemies and bow as well.
Crazy Rick.
Okay.
Which enemy do we want to look for enemy.
Boop boop boop.
Enemy this guy at the front.
What number you enemy seven for me and default weapon.
We will give you a bow okay.
He's not gonna behave as we expect just yet because we haven't implemented all of his logic we haven't
given him a different kind of chase radius and all that kind of stuff for the bow but for now it's not
too bad.
Wherever he will shoot this dude this dude is enemy fire.
For me we'll look at his health at the moment it's 40.
I just remembered something that I did wrong again.
We'll fix that in a moment first I'll show you the problem is happening here fizzles too slow.
We need to speed that up but health's not going down the arrow is not going away.
What has Rick done.
I did this deliberately so that you could learn the lesson of this stupid mistake that I make over and
over.
Actually that's a lie I just forgot.
Yet again I forgot to do what I forgot to click on my projectile on my box collider is trigger on a
little note I need a tattoo on my inside of my eyelids always quick is trigger Rick.
Once you have drama.
Okay.
And while we're on our own projectile change of speed to 10 cells not quite so slow motion back over
into our game.
Well done.
If you saw that when I was doing it.
You like Rick you've missed his trigger and you clicked on his trigger because you know these things.
A wise one and bounce and then yes.
Looks like it's being disappearing the arrow.
His health is going down he's gone.
This guy can he should hit me.
Yes he can.
But problem with him is when I woke up in here he's like Nope not chasing you anymore.
So we would need to play around with his chase radius.
It's really just some tuning we can do for him to make him more more clever.
But you can see we've got a general issue with our enemies.
They need to chase you when you're shooting them.
They can't just stand there and be like yeah nothing to see but we've got our arrows and we're shooting
and we're doing damage and the arrows are disappearing so this is huge progress progress super excited.
This is making our game feel you know what feel pretty cool I reckon so.
Great work in this video and I'll see you again real soon.